Using the same techniques as we used in the last video I went through and assign materials to the knife
block here.
So we have the basic material of the main block and you can see the node tree for that.
Here we've got the knife handles.
And here's it's no tree and material for the metal on each of the handles.
If we zoom in here you can kind of see that each one has pieces of metal on them and one material for
the knife block feet.
Right here.
Now let's take a look at creating the materials for this paper towel holder.
And in doing so I want to add one more piece to the puzzle.
I want to see if we can add a little bit of texture to the paper towels themselves.
So let's select that paper towel holder object and I'll come over here and hit the period key and zoom
in.
And now let's think about what we want for this.
I think what I want is this top part here and this bottom part to be a metallic surface.
And also I want this piece and this piece on the base to be kind of a black plastic.
So let's begin with the metal first.
With that object selected all click new.
In the materials window and let's call this paper towels metal up here in the note editor I'll go ahead
and add a new node with Shift A and I'll go to Shater glossy and I'll also add a mix note as well.
You know we go and I'll bring the glossy into the bottom socket of the mix Shater And here we are we're
beginning to get a relatively metallic surface here.
I think what I'll do for this is I think I will actually switch this around I'll change this to a solid
view and I'll change this view down here to a rendered viewport shading.
Now we can see it a little better.
Well that's getting to be what I want but I think it's a little bit too bright.
I'm going to bring the color down in the diffuse bring that down a bit like so and let's go with that
for now and see how it looks once we get the other materials on there as well.
All right now I need to select these other parts of the object in edit mode so I'll go back to solid
here and go back to rendered up here.
And now I can tab into edit mode and zoom in to this and select these other pieces.
So for this I think in face mode I'll press alt and click and edge between two of the faces and press
control up arrow to select this piece right here.
I'll then add a material slot.
Create a new material.
Call this paper towels.
I'll call this black plastic so I know what it is.
A sign that zoom in up here so I can see that material as I work and now in vnode editor lets add a
glossy shader a mix shader
combine those two and I'll take the diffuse color down to a more gray or black color I think that's
a little bit too shiny for plastic.
I'll take the mix shader down to maybe point two and it's still looking a little metallic.
And one of the reasons for that is because the specular highlights are white.
We can change the color of the highlights if we click here and bring this down a little bit more into
a gray.
Now that material is beginning to look a little bit more plastic.
So for materials to look plastic.
Sometimes what you need is for the specular highlight the gloss to be more the same color as the diffuse.
So I'll take the roughness down here to maybe point one.
And we go and I think I'll even bring that glossy color down a little bit more.
All right.
Let's go with that.
What I'll also do is grab this piece down here all hover over it and press the L key since it's a separate
piece.
I can select that whole piece.
And now let's go ahead and assign this material to it.
So I'll just click a sign and there we go.
All right.
So we have our materials set up for the plastic and the metal.
What about the paper towels here.
Well this is a little bit different kind of material.
Let's go ahead and select it with the L key and for this once again I'll create a new material slot
and new material I'll call this paper towels and we'll click a sign.
So now that looks a little bit more like paper towels.
But what I would like to try here is to see if I can get some sort of small texture to this so it so
it has the sense that it's kind of a rough surface to it like some paper towels are we could leave it
like this and that would be fine.
But I think I'd like to try and get a little bit more texture to it.
So what let's do is bring in a texture node and let's bring in a noise texture now a noise texture is
just a bunch of colored noise.
We can feed this into the color channel here of the diffuse and take a look at what it looks like.
There it is.
It's just kind of a mess of random colors and patterns and we can change the scale here.
Maybe let's increase the scale up to say 50 and you can see how it really reduces the size of that pattern.
Let's take it on up to maybe 100 and maybe this is the size of our pattern that we want for our texture
but obviously we don't want to feed it in through the color channel.
What we want to do is feed this in through the displacement.
However we have a different color socket here for the displacement.
You can see that we have different colored sockets and usually the same color socket is what you want
to connect.
So a green to a green a yellow to a yellow blue to a blue.
So I'll just grab this and disconnected from that diffuse Shater.
And now we need to think about converting this color to a black and white image.
All press shift a and let's bring up the converter menu and let's choose our G.B. to black and white
and we go and notice it has a color to color socket there so we can feed that color into there.
Now we can see here that we have a gray value socket and we can feed that into the displacement.
And when we do we can see the texture on here but that too much and I don't have any way to increase
or decrease the size or effect of that texture.
What we need to do is add a node in here that allows us to adjust the strength of the texture.
So what we can do is press shift a and bring in under the converter menu a math node.
If I click that I can add that to the chain and I can change this from ADD to multiply.
Now notice we've got a gray value socket going to our gray socket here.
And I can take this value in the multiply no down to say point 0 1.
Something pretty small.
And now you can just barely see a little bit of texture to this.
We can of course increase this however much we want.
But I just wanted something very subtle just to give a sense that the paper towels have just a bit of
texture.
All right.
Let me hit zero over here to go back to our camera view and in the next video what let's do is let's
take a look at using this same kind of process to maybe texture one of our pieces of fruit say an orange
here in the bowl.